---
question: What are Jhānas?
---
The Jhānas are eight altered states of consciousness that can be
achieved through concentration. Each state yields a deeper level of
concentration than the previous one.


The Jhānas are an important aspect of meditation practice, and many
people find them to be a rewarding and beneficial experience.
However, it's worth noting that achieving Jhānas can take time and
effort, and the required time and resources may vary from person to
person.


If you're interested in pursuing Jhānas, there are various resources
available, such as books and online courses, that can help you along
the way. Additionally, an app can be a great tool to help you make
meditation a habit and stay motivated on your journey to Jhānas.


It's important to keep in mind that Jhānas, like any deep meditation
practice, may have some possible side effects or contraindications.
It's always a good idea to consult with a healthcare professional
before starting a new meditation practice, especially if you have
any underlying medical conditions.


On the other hand, there are many benefits to practicing Jhāna
meditation, such as deepening concentration and focus, cultivating
feelings of joy, peace, and happiness, and potentially reducing
symptoms of anxiety and depression. Find the approach that works
best for you, as different practices can yield better results
depending on the person. Achievements and badges can also be a great
way to stay motivated and share progress with fellow meditators.

